<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Only Business Writing Book You&#8217;ll Ever Need</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="copyright-page">
    <p class="noindentfm" id="copy"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_vii"></span>This book is intended as a guide to business writing; it is not a substitute for legal or professional advice. References to specific products, services, service providers and/or organizations are for illustration only. Neither the publisher nor the author can guarantee that any particular practice or resource will be useful or appropriate to the reader. Web addresses appearing in this book reflect existing links as of the date of first publication. The Publisher is not responsible for, and should not be deemed to endorse or recommend, any website other than its own or any content available on the internet (including, without limitation, any website, blog page, or information page to which the reader may be referred) that is not created and maintained by W. W. Norton.</p>
<p class="copy1">Copyright &#169; 2019 by Laura Brown</p>
<p class="copy">Foreword copyright &#169; 2019 by Rich Karlgaard</p>
<p class="copy">Customized FSBT resources copyright &#169; 2020 Zovio Inc</p>
<p class="copy">All rights reserved.</p>
<p class="copy">First Edition: 2019</p>
<p class="copy">Custom Edition: Forbes School of Business and Technology: 2020</p>    
    
<p class="copy1">For information about permission to reproduce selections from this book, write to Permissions, W. W. Norton &#38; Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10110</p>
<p class="copy1">For information about special discounts for bulk purchases, please contact W. W. Norton Special Sales at specialsales@wwnorton.com or 800-233-4830</p>
<p class="copy1">Book design by Lovedog Studio</p>
<p class="copy">Production manager: Julia Druskin</p>
<p class="copy1">The Library of Congress has cataloged the printed edition as follows:</p>
<p class="copyh1">Names: Brown, Laura, 1959&#8211; author.</p>
<p class="copyh">Title: The only business writing book you&#8217;ll ever need / Laura Brown ; foreword by Rich Karlgaard.</p>
<p class="copyh">Description: First Edition. | New York : W. W. Norton &#38; Company, [2019] | Includes index.</p>
<p class="copyh">Identifiers: LCCN 2018046418 | ISBN 9780393635324 (hardcover)</p>
<p class="copyh">Subjects: LCSH: Business writing.</p>
<p class="copyh">Classification: LCC HF5718.3 .B765 2019 | DDC 808.06/665&#8212;dc23</p>
<p class="copyh">LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2018046418</p>
    
<p class="copy1"><strong>ISBN:</strong> 978-0-39363-533-1 (first edition, ebook)</p>
<p class="copyh"><strong>ISBN:</strong> 978-1-62178-641-2 (custom edition, ebook)</p>


<p class="copy1">W. W. Norton &#38; Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10110</p>
<p class="copyh"><a href="http://www.wwnorton.com">www.wwnorton.com</a></p>
<p class="copy">W. W. Norton &#38; Company Ltd., 15 Carlisle Street, London W1D 3BS</p>

    <p class="copy1">Zovio, 1811 East  Northrop Boulevard, Chandler, A.Z. 85286</p>
    <p class="copy">www.zovio.com</p> 



<p class="copy1">GRANT OF PERMISSION TO PRINT: The copyright owner of this material hereby grants the holder of this publication the right to print these materials for personal use. The holder of this material may print the materials herein for personal use only. Any print, reprint, reproduction or distribution of these materials for commercial use without the express written consent of the copyright owner constitutes a violation of the U.S. Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. &#167;&#167; 101-810, as amended.</p>

</section>
</body>
</html>