<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
    <title>The Only Business Writing Book You&#8217;ll Ever Need</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" />
</head>

<body epub:type="bodymatter">
    <section epub:type="chapter">

        <div class="co-box" id="ch9">
            <div class="co-cn">
                <span class="cn">9</span>
            </div>
            <div class="co-ct">
                <h1 class="ct">Writing With a Team</h1>
            </div>
        </div>

        <p class="tx">Many forms of business communication are part of a collaborative writing process, where multiple
            individuals work together to design, create, and produce the final product. While collaboration in writing
            is hardly new, what has changed is how both executives and employees view collaborative writing: The
            emphasis has shifted from evaluating the end product to assessing the process used to produce it. You can be
            a talented writer, but if you are writing with others and fail to communicate and collaborate effectively,
            the resulting piece will read poorly.</p>
        <p class="tx">Successful collaborative writing generally occurs in four stages:</p>

        <p class="num1">1.<span class="space" />Define the mission</p>
        <p class="num1">2.<span class="space" />Create the action plan</p>
        <p class="num1">3.<span class="space" />Establish goals and deadlines</p>
        <p class="num1">4.<span class="space" />Finalize the project</p>


        <p class="tx">Ideally, your collaborative writing timelines will tend to look like an inverted hourglass: brief
            amounts of time are spent defining the mission (stage 1) and finalizing the project (stage 4), and most time
            is given to creating the action plan (stage 2) and establishing goals and deadlines (stage 3). The two
            middle stages are the site of the kind of creative chaos that often generates innovative
            thinking&#8212;which is one of the primary advantages of collaboration.</p>
        <h1 class="h1" id="sec104">9.1 Stage 1: Define the Mission</h1>
        <p class="tx">Before any collaborative project can begin, the team must first define the mission. A mission
            statement is an essential tool that provides clear directions about the scope of a project and the purpose
            of the team. The mission serves two primary purposes. First, it should be the only part of the collaboration
            that, once written and agreed upon, does not change. Second, it should be the frame of reference the group
            uses for every step of the process. As the team works on various aspects of the project, every member should
            review the mission statement to make sure the parts align with the mission statement.</p>
        <p class="tx">As an example, let&#8217;s consider Team Outreach, which has been asked to create a proposal in a
            month that describes how to establish stronger local loyalty to the Planet Plants brand. The team of 10 will
            be working remotely to ensure representation from urban areas, small towns, mid-sized cities, and various
            key regions in the United States. You can read their mission statement and action plan at the end of this
            section.</p>
        <p class="tx">The mission statement should not take more than a single meeting to generate ideas and a portion
            of another meeting to accept a final version. The second part of defining the mission is to create a viable
            timeline for each stage of the project, identifying how much time is required for the next three stages.</p>
        <h1 class="h1" id="sec105">9.2 Stages 2 and 3: Create an Action Plan and Establish Goals and Deadlines</h1>
        <p class="tx">With a mission statement to guide the process, Team Outreach can now develop an action plan that
            lays out the various stages of development, what they entail, which members will participate throughout the
            process, and how they will participate. If the mission statement is set in stone, the action plan is the
            part of the collaborative process that allows for the most flexibility.</p>
        <p class="tx">It is useful to examine the various options that are used in collaborative writing. There are five
            collaborative writing strategies based on the findings of Paul Benjamin Lowry, Aaron Curtis, and Michelle
            Ren&#233; Lowry (&#8220;Building a Taxonomy and Nomenclature of Collaborative Writing to Improve
            Interdisciplinary Research and Practice&#8221;).<sup><a epub:type="noteref" id="fn-30"
                    href="18_Chapter09.xhtml#fn_30">&#8727;</a></sup> The role that authorship plays in collaborative
            documents very much depends upon the autonomy of the writer at various stages in the process.</p>




        <table class="table">
            <colgroup>
                <col />
                <col />
            </colgroup>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-header">
                    <p class="table-head">Collaborative writing type</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-header">
                    <p class="table-head">Description</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Single-author</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Occurs when one team member writes as a representative for the entire team.
                        Single-author writing usually happens when the writing task is simple.</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Sequential single</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">One group member writes at a time. Each group member is assigned a portion of the
                        document, writes his or her portion, and then passes the document onto the next group member.
                    </p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Parallel</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">A type of collaborative writing that occurs when a group divides the assignment or
                        document into separate parts, and all members work on their assigned part at the same time.
                        There are two types of parallel writing: <span class="italic">Horizontal division parallel
                            writing</span> occurs when group members divide the task into sections, each member being
                        responsible for the development of his or her assigned section. <span class="italic">Stratified
                            division parallel writing</span> occurs when group members divide responsibility of the
                        creation of the product by assigning different members different roles. Some examples of roles
                        that a member could be assigned are author, editor, facilitator, or team leader.</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Reactive</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Occurs when team members collaborate synchronously to develop their product. Team
                        members react to and adjust each other&#8217;s contributions as they are made.</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Mixed mode</p>
                </td>
                <td class="table-cell">
                    <p class="tx">Describes a form of writing that mixes two or more of the collaborative writing
                        strategies described above.</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <p class="tx">While there is no empirical evidence for which strategy is used most in business collaborative
            writing, the mixed mode is probably the most common as more tools are becoming available. A major
            consideration in reviewing these options is that the type of strategy will change as the document
            progresses. For instance, parallel writing might be ideal for getting the various sections of the document
            started, while single-author writing might be the best option for creating a master rough draft.</p>
        <p class="tx">E-mail and collaborative editing tools such as Google Docs reduce the need for face/voice time
            when working on written documents. This leaves the bulk of time for information and ideas generation and,
            later, the critical assessment stage, where content and order are finalized.</p>
        <p class="tx">Again, the planning stage of the process should be fluid. The point is to generate as much
            valuable content as possible. The advantage to this approach is that the team can experience the equivalent
            of bouncing ideas off one another. One team member might be working on parks and recreation and be inspired
            by someone else who is working on green revitalization.</p>


        <aside epub:type="footnote" id="fn_30">
            <p class="foot1"><a href="18_Chapter09.xhtml#fn-30">&#8727;</a><span class="italic">Journal of Business
                    Communication</span> 44.1 (2004): 66&#8211;99. Print.</p>
        </aside>

        <h1 class="h1" id="sec106">9.3 Stage 4: Finalize the Project</h1>
        <p class="tx">The final stage is not time consuming for the group. While the team may have a chance to
            participate in collaborative revisions, at some point the revision process stops and the final editing stage
            begins.</p>

        <!-- Begin sample action plan -->
        <p class="tx"><span class="bold">Sample Action Plan: Team Outreach for Planet Plants</span></p>
        <p class="tx"><span class="bold"> Team Members</span>: Alan, Keisha, Mario, Norbert, Selma, Betsy
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="While it may seem obvious, it is critical to list the team members and the scope of the project upfront. The action plan acts as a map. The more complex the project, the more important it is to track who is doing what.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>1</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>

        <p class="tx"><span class="bold">Major Initiatives</span>: Parks, Youth, Earth Day</p>
        <p class="tx"><span class="italic">Week One, Day One</span>:</p>
        <p class="blockquote">Create team mission statement.</p>
        <p class="blockquote"><span class="bold">Mission Statement</span>: The mission of Team Outreach is to
            demonstrate strong community commitment by creating local partnerships to support local parks, youth
            engagement, and Earth Day initiatives in order to promote the benefits of respecting our planet through the
            love and care of our plants.
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="The mission statement is often overlooked as part of the team-building process. However, it is the bridge that connects the team’s objectives to that of the organization.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>2</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p class="blockquote">Divide into teams of two to explore options.</p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Parks: Alan and Keisha</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Youth: Mario and Selma</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Earth Day: Norbert and Betsy</p>

        <p class="blockquote">Decide on leadership strategy.</p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Week One: Alan and Keisha</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Week Two: Mario and Selma</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Week Three: Norbert and Betsy</p>
        <p class="num2">4.<span class="space" />Week Four: TBD</p>

        <p class="tx"><span class="italic">Week One, Day Two</span>:</p>
        <p class="blockquote">Decide on collaborative tools.
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="Projects will vary in complexity, but using the right tool can dramatically affect the workflow of the team. New collaborative tools are introduced frequently, so it is important to keep evaluating what works best.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>3</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Conference options</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Document share options</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Presentation and display options</p>
        <p class="num2">4.<span class="space" />Other</p>

        <p class="blockquote">Team Talent Assessment Due Day Five
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="Part of the early planning stage for any project should include a complete inventory of talent, whether it seems relevant or not. Asking members to submit their résumés is a good place to start assessing interests, knowledge, and talent.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>4</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>
        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Research</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Writing</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Revision</p>
        <p class="num2">4.<span class="space" />Editing</p>
        <p class="num2">5.<span class="space" />Field work</p>
        <p class="num2">6.<span class="space" />Negotiations</p>
        <p class="num2">7.<span class="space" />General knowledge and expertise: finance, legal, graphic design,
            marketing, etc.</p>

        <p class="blockquote">Team Tasks Due Day Seven</p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Evaluate what current initiatives already exist in each team&#8217;s
            area.</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Investigate who is actively supporting local programs through
            sponsorships, grants, donations, and government funding and how much (if possible to detect).</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Generate a list of ideas that are fundable, with pros and cons.</p>

        <p class="tx"><span class="italic">Week Two</span>:</p>
        <p class="blockquote">Team Conference Agenda
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="The agenda is a key organizing document. Not only does it outline what will be discussed or decided; it can also serve as the outline for taking minutes of the meeting.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>5</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Assign talent to tasks (Norbert to copyedit, Betsy to field interviews,
            etc.).</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Collate suggested activities, discuss, and finalize selection of
            projects.</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Develop strategies for data gathering, including use of collaborative
            environment to placing rough findings and notes.</p>
        <p class="num2">4.<span class="space" />Deadline for all data collection is day seven.</p>

        <p class="tx"><span class="italic">Week Three</span>:</p>
        <p class="blockquote">Team Conference Agenda
            <span class="tooltip-container standard" data-tooltip="container"
                title="It is not uncommon that teams are fatigued by the time they reach the end stages. However, the final product is the only thing that management will see or is likely to care about. Close, meticulous review is necessary to ensure the entire project is not dismissed as sloppy.">
                <span data-tooltip="trigger"><sup>6</sup></span>
            </span>
        </p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Each team must submit a rough draft of its section of the proposal by
            day four.</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Each team must review or comment on drafts by day six.</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Each team must review comments, incorporate edits, and flag any major
            questions by day seven.</p>

        <p class="tx"><span class="italic">Week Four</span>:</p>
        <p class="blockquote">Team Conference Agenda</p>

        <p class="num2">1.<span class="space" />Review revised proposal sections.</p>
        <p class="num2">2.<span class="space" />Assign development of the introduction, conclusion, references, and
            design elements of the final document due by day four.</p>
        <p class="num2">3.<span class="space" />Address and finalize any remaining questions, holes, or issues with the
            document.</p>
        <p class="num2">4.<span class="space" />Send near-final report for in-house review by day five.</p>
        <p class="num2">5.<span class="space" />Finalize any edits or other minor tweaks by day six.</p>
        <p class="num2">6.<span class="space" />Complete a final edit before submitting for the team on day seven.</p>



        <script type="text/javascript" src="../Js/tooltip.js"></script>

    </section>
</body>

</html>