<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Only Business Writing Book You&#8217;ll Ever Need</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="contributors">
<h2 class="h2" id="cont"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_237"></span><a class="none" href="06_Contents.xhtml#rcont">Contributors</a></h2>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Anita Campbell</span> is the founder, CEO, and publisher of <span class="italic">Small Business Trends</span> (smallbiztrends.com) and its associated online publications, communities, and newsletters. Campbell&#8217;s expertise has been noted and her opinion quoted in the <span class="italic">Wall Street Journal, New York Times,</span> and countless other media outlets. She writes one thousand words a day.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Joel Comm</span> is a <span class="italic">New York Times</span> best-selling author, professional keynote speaker, social media marketing strategist, live video expert, technologist, brand influencer, and futurist. With over two decades of experience in harnessing the power of the web, publishing, social media, and mobile applications to expand, reach, and engage in active relationship marketing, Comm is a sought-after public speaker who leaves his audiences inspired, entertained, and armed with strategic tools with which to create highly effective new media campaigns. His website is joelcomm.com.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Robert C. Daugherty</span> is the executive dean of the Forbes School of Business and Technology. His research areas include leadership, economics, and investment decision-making. Daugherty advises private equity firms, venture capitalists, and corporate business development groups on strategy, governance, and innovation. He has served as a principal, partner, and adviser to a number of funds focused on high-growth and &#173;knowledge-based industries. Previously, Daugherty served as the CEO <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_238"></span>of the Jack Welch Management Institute. He holds degrees from Harvard, Columbia, and the University of Cambridge.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Rachel Christmas Derrick</span> is an editor and award-winning writer who has written six books, several chapters of books, and more than two hundred articles on health, social justice, travel, and other subjects; these were published in the <span class="italic">New York Times, Washington Post, Boston Globe, Los Angeles Times, Miami Herald, Newsweek, Essence, Travel + Leisure, National Geographic Traveler,</span> and <span class="italic">Islands,</span> among other periodicals.</p>
<p class="indentc">She is currently director of communication and fund-raising at the Urban Homesteading Assistance Board, a nonprofit specializing in helping low- to moderate-income New York City residents transform their distressed apartment buildings into strong, self-run affordable housing co-ops. Her previous positions include senior writer at the Rockefeller Foundation and deputy director of communications for University Development and Alumni Relations at Columbia University.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Anita Gupta</span> is head of global media relations and regional head of corporate communications and responsibility, Americas at Deutsche Post DHL Group. She leads the global positioning of Deutsche Post DHL, with its diverse products and services and a base of 450,000 employees in 220 countries. Prior to accepting this assignment, she served the firm in a variety of corporate communications roles globally. Before joining Deutsche Post DHL Group in 2007, she served in several senior risk and communications roles at Citigroup and Citigroup International in New York and Mumbai.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Rich Karlgaard</span> is the publisher and futurist of Forbes Media and a twenty-six-year Forbes employee. His writing is known for its keen assessment of technology, economic, business, and leadership issues.</p>
<p class="indentc">Karlgaard&#8217;s 2014 book on innovation culture, <span class="italic">The Soft Edge: Where Great Companies Find Lasting Success,</span> made the lists of top business books of 2014 for <span class="italic">Inc.,</span> Time.com, 800-CEO-READ, and the <span class="italic">Huffington Post</span>. His 2015 book, <span class="italic">Team Genius: The New Science of High-Performing <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_239"></span>Organizations,</span> cowritten with Michael S. Malone, was praised by Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft. Karlgaard&#8217;s next book, called <span class="italic">Late Bloomers: The Power of Patience in a World Obsessed with Early Achievement,</span> will be published by Crown Business in March 2019.</p>
<p class="indentc">Karlgaard holds a BA in political science from Stanford University. He and his family live in Silicon Valley.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Rieva Lesonsky</span> is a cofounder and the CEO of GrowBiz Media, a custom content-creation company focusing on small businesses and entrepreneurship, and a co-owner of the blog <span class="italic">SmallBizDaily</span>. A nationally known speaker, best-selling author, and authority on entrepreneurship, Lesonsky has been covering America&#8217;s entrepreneurs for more than thirty years. Previously, Lesonsky was the longtime editorial director of <span class="italic">Entrepreneur</span> magazine.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Patty Malenfant</span> is a human resources leader for a Fortune 500 hospitality company in the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. As a valued business partner with over twenty-five years of experience, she provides expertise in strategic leadership consultation, management coaching, talent acquisition, career development, and organizational development. She has taken key roles in implementing initiatives for leadership talent assessments, performance management, and diversity. Patty enjoys facilitating training and team-building activities to equip leaders with new skills and improve the work environment. Her creative approach to developing and mentoring new team members fosters their career success and job retention.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Barry Moltz</span> gets business owners growing again by unlocking their long-forgotten potential. With decades of entrepreneurial experience in his own business ventures, as well as consulting with countless other entrepreneurs, Barry applies strategic steps to facilitate changes. Barry is the author of five books, including <span class="italic">How to Get Unstuck: 25 Ways to Get Your Business Growing Again</span> (Motivational Press, 2014).</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_240"></span><span class="bold">Jerry Reece</span> has forty-six years of real estate brokerage experience, most recently as chairman emeritus of ReeceNichols, a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate. In 1987, he purchased the residential real estate division of Kroh Brothers and renamed it J. D. Reece Realtors. In 2001, he sold the company to HomeServices of America, a Berkshire Hathaway affiliate. Reece &#38; Nichols was formed in January 2002 with the merger of J. D. Reece Realtors and J. C. Nichols Residential Real Estate. Reece served as the CEO of the enterprise until July 2013. In 2014, Reece &#38; Nichols took it a step further and removed the ampersand from its name. As Reece-Nichols, the name no longer conveys two companies; instead, it speaks of one united brand, its employees standing together as the leader in real estate. Today, ReeceNichols is the market share leader in Kansas City&#8217;s real estate market. In 2017, Jerry was recognized by Ingram as one of the 250 Most Powerful Business Leaders in Kansas City.</p>
<p class="indentc">Reece is a graduate of the University of Oregon, with a bachelor of science in finance. He is a Vietnam veteran and a retired colonel in the U.S. Marine Corps Forces Reserve.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Dominique Schurman</span> is the CEO of Schurman Retail Group, whose brands include Papyrus, Marcel Schurman, Paper Destiny, Niquea.D, Carlton Cards, and Clintons. Schurman became CEO in 1992 when her father retired, and she has since increased the number of Papyrus shops from thirty-seven to more than two hundred, in locations throughout North America. Through the acquisition of the Carlton Cards and American Greetings retail stores in 2009, Schurman built the company into a retail powerhouse with more than three hundred stores. Her passion for excellence in product design, product quality, and customer service has helped transform the company from a small niche player into an international collection of retail brands, meeting the needs of both the high-end and the value-oriented consumer.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Steve Strauss</span> is often called &#8220;the country&#8217;s leading small business expert.&#8221; The senior <span class="italic">USA Today</span> small business columnist and a best-&#173;selling author, Strauss recently updated his all-purpose guide <span class="italic">The Small <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_241"></span>Business Bible,</span> producing a comprehensive third edition. A lawyer, author, and public speaker, Strauss regularly speaks around the world about small business strategies and global trends in business, and he sits on the board of the World Entrepreneurship Forum. Strauss has been seen on ABC, CNN, CNBC, MSNBC, and <span class="italic">The O&#8217;Reilly Factor,</span> among other venues. His company, the Strauss Group, creates cutting-edge business content for everyone from Fortune 100 companies to small chambers of commerce. Strauss&#8217;s new website for the self-employed is TheSelfEmployed.com.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Sydney Strauss</span> is a writer based in the Pacific Northwest. She is especially passionate about studying language in order to better understand the human condition within a modern, twenty-first-century setting. She received her BA from Seattle University and is eager to continue her higher education in the coming years.</p>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="bolds">Rosanne J. Thomas</span> is the founder and president of Protocol Advisors, Inc., of Boston, Massachusetts, and the author of <span class="italic">Excuse Me: The Survival Guide to Modern Business Etiquette</span> (AMACOM, 2017).</p>
<p class="indentc">Thomas is a certified etiquette and protocol consultant. She believes that &#8220;professional presence&#8221; is for everyone and that it is never too soon or too late to reap the real benefits enhanced &#8220;professional presence&#8221; provides. Thomas travels the country presenting training programs designed to instill confidence and help professionals achieve their personal goals for success.</p>
<p class="indentc">Recognized as an expert in her field, Thomas makes frequent appearances on television and radio shows and in print. She was featured in the <span class="italic">Boston Globe</span>&#8217;s article &#8220;Miss Manners on Wall Street&#8221; and has contributed to the WCVB TV show <span class="italic">Chronicle,</span> as well as to WHDH, WBZ, and FOX television programs. Additionally, she has been interviewed on <span class="italic">CBS This Morning,</span> MTV, and National Public Radio and has been featured in articles in the <span class="italic">Wall Street Journal, Newsweek,</span> and <span class="italic">Entrepreneur</span> magazine<span class="italic">.</span> Thomas&#8217;s professional background also includes eleven years with the internationally renowned luxury retailer Tiffany &#38; Co.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>