<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Only Business Writing Book You&#8217;ll Ever Need</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="backmatter">
<section epub:type="other-credits">
<h2 class="h2" id="aut"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_253"></span>About the Author</h2>
<p class="noindentc1"><span class="big">Laura Brown, PhD</span>, is the author of <span class="italic">How to Write Anything: A Complete Guide</span> (W. W. Norton, 2014), an Amazon No. 1 best seller in the business communications category. Her business writing training and coaching clients have included AOL Time Warner, Citigroup, DHL, Dun &#38; Bradstreet, the Ford Foundation, Hay Group, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, Prudential, TMP Worldwide, and Warburg Pincus, among others.</p>
<p class="indentc">Laura taught business and technical writing at Iona College for ten years, and she taught composition at Columbia University for five. She designed two core courses for Columbia&#8217;s master&#8217;s program in strategic communication. Laura has an extensive background in digital learning design. In 1999, she collaborated with e-learning pioneer Roger Schank and Columbia University on a series of web-based business writing courses. She has developed a variety of corporate training programs with online learning companies Cognitive Arts, KLi Learning Corporation, and Socratic Arts.</p>
<p class="indentc">As a writer, Laura has provided a variety of marketing and other writing services&#8212;including web content, business cases, white papers, and promotional materials&#8212;for clients like Booz Allen Hamilton, Columbia Business School, Corning Incorporated, and Deloitte. She served for three years as English communication adviser for the Wharton School&#8217;s Global Chinese Business Initiative, where she oversaw the writing of international correspondence, promotional literature, and a series of case studies.</p>
<p class="indentc">Laura is the coauthor of <span class="italic">Build Your Own Garage: Blueprints and Tools to Unleash Your Company&#8217;s Hidden Creativity</span> (Free Press, 2001) <span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_254"></span>with Professor Bernd H. Schmitt of Columbia Business School. She has ghostwritten nearly a dozen books, including <span class="italic">Inside Chinese Business: A Guide for Managers Worldwide</span> (Harvard Business School Press, 2001) by Professor Ming-Jer Chen and <span class="italic">Experiential Marketing: How to Get Customers to Sense, Feel, Think, Act, and Relate to Your Company and Brands</span> (Free Press, 1999) by Bernd H. Schmitt (in this best-selling marketing book, &#8220;Laura Brown&#8221; also appears as a mystery character . . . ).</p>
<p class="indentc">Laura Brown was born in California and received a BA in English from UCLA. She holds an MA in drama from the University of London and a PhD in English and comparative literature from Columbia University. She lives in New York City.</p>
<p class="indentc">You can reach Laura via <span class="hyperlink"><a  target="_blank" href="http://www.howtowriteanything.com/">www.howtowriteanything.com/</a></span> and www.laurabrowncommunications.com.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>