<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>The Only Business Writing Book You&#8217;ll Ever Need</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section epub:type="chapter">
<h1 class="h1" id="ch2"><span epub:type="pagebreak" id="page_8"></span><a class="none" href="06_Contents.xhtml#rch2">1.2 What Kind of Writer Are You?</a></h1>
<p class="noindent">In thirty years as a writing coach and trainer, I&#8217;ve seen all kinds of writers. There are many ways to approach a writing task, and none of them is the <span class="italic">only</span> right way. What&#8217;s important is for you to understand which approach works best for you and to use that approach, not to try to force yourself to work in a way that someone else has dictated.</p>
<p class="indent">As I see it, most writers are either <span class="bold">planners</span> or <span class="bold">editors</span>.</p>
<p class="indent">Planners like to map things out before they start to write. They organize their content; they make outlines. Editors, on the other hand, tend to jump in and write, and then go back and revise later. Of course, most people do a little of both&#8212;you pretty much have to&#8212;but most people have a preferred approach. I&#8217;m an editor myself; I tend to write a draft and go back and fix it up later. It took me years to accept that it was all right for me to work this way, that I wasn&#8217;t a miserable failure because I don&#8217;t outline. It&#8217;s also all right for <span class="italic">you</span> to use whichever approach you like best.</p>
<p class="indent">In the seven steps that follow, you&#8217;ll see guidance useful for all kinds of writers, and you&#8217;ll also see guidance specifically for planners and for editors, so that you can make the most of your preferred approach to writing.</p>
<p class="indent">If you&#8217;ve never thought about this idea before, or if you&#8217;re not sure exactly how you prefer to work, it&#8217;s worth giving it some thought. The more self-aware you become as a writer, the more success you&#8217;ll have in getting your writing done quickly, efficiently, and effectively.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>